h1. example.html

this shows a plot of a typical day, with personal details suitably removed and obscured.

it's extracted from a hacky 3D experiment to help visualise the problem 

there's still enough to see the relative positions of patients, volunteers and ambulances

there's also an attempt to represent relative journey and appointment times

raw data can also be extracted from the code. 



h2. Details

* red dots show location of patients
* grey/black dots show available volunteers 
* green dots are ambulances - usually at the position of the previous driver

One immediate point to note is that the kinds of dot cluster differently, eg 
patients and volunteers tend not to be in the same areas, with corresponding 
effect on driving time. 


The funny lines pointing at the dots represent journey time. The thicker part
represents time at hospital, and the thinner bits before and after represent
estimated travel time. The length of the line represents the time that the
patient will be away from home, if transported in a single trip (ie. not shared).


h2. Underlying data

Three JSON arrays contain the key data.

* "ambulances" = list of ambulance positions (previous driver) with the ambulance names
* "volunteers" = list of volunters, with their position and indication of whether they drive or not. 
* "patient_info" = list of appointments, each record showing rough position of patient plus four times
** "beg" and "end" are the nominal hospital appointment times
** "put" = pick up time, estimated time by which patient should be collected to arrive in good time for the appointment
** "dot" = drop off time, predicted time for return home
** the estimated times are crude, roughly taking into account distance, river crossing, and likely speed


h2. "3D Animation"

Some buttons allow movement of a camera positioned over the plot. Hover 
over "hover for instructions" at top left for hints. 

The forward/backward option is to help visualise what the demand is, at
various times through the day. The idea is that the plane of the dots 
moves up or down in time relative to the journey lines, and where this plane 
intersects those lines indicates what's happening on those journeys at
that time. It may or may not be helpful. 

The plot can also be superimposed on a map of the Tyne & Wear region. I've 
not got a suitable image for this that I can share, so it's left for the 
reader to supply (or imagine). 

There are other experimental implementations of a camera in the code, but
I won't try to explain those. 


